Docker Desktop 4.41.2 can run on Windows 10 Enterprise 22H2 (build 19045 or higher) with full support for Buildx and BuildKit for Linux containers.

Here's a breakdown of the requirements and support:

System Requirements for Docker Desktop 4.41.2 on Windows 10 22H2:

Operating System: Windows 10 64-bit: Home or Pro 22H2 (build 19045) or higher, or Enterprise or Education 22H2 (build 19045) or higher. Your 19045.5965 build is well within this range.

WSL 2 Backend (Recommended and Default for Linux Containers):

WSL 2 feature enabled: You'll need to enable the Windows Subsystem for Linux 2 feature.

WSL version: WSL 2.1.5 or later (though recent Docker Desktop versions often include or upgrade WSL components).

Hardware Virtualization:

64-bit processor with Second Level Address Translation (SLAT).

4GB system RAM.

Hardware virtualization enabled in BIOS/UEFI settings.

Hyper-V Backend (Alternative for Linux Containers, Required for Windows Containers):

Hyper-V and Containers Windows features enabled: These Windows features must be turned on.

Hardware Virtualization: Same hardware prerequisites as WSL 2.

For Windows containers specifically: You need Windows 10 Professional or Enterprise edition (which you have) and the Hyper-V backend enabled.

Buildx and BuildKit Support:

BuildKit is the default builder: As of Docker Engine version 23.0 (and Docker Desktop 4.x), BuildKit is the default build backend. This means you don't typically need to do anything special to enable it; it's on by default.

Buildx is included: The docker buildx CLI plugin is bundled with Docker Desktop for Windows. Buildx inherently uses BuildKit for its advanced build capabilities (like multi-platform builds).


Linux Container Support: BuildKit and Buildx are fully supported and robust for building Linux containers on Docker Desktop for Windows (whether using the WSL 2 or Hyper-V backend).

Windows Container Support with BuildKit (Experimental): While BuildKit's primary focus has been Linux containers, it does have experimental support for Windows containers (WCOW) as of BuildKit version 0.13 (and Docker Desktop 4.29+). You typically need to explicitly enable this and may have specific prerequisites (e.g., containerd version, base images). For most common use cases, if you're building Linux images, this experimental status won't affect you.

In summary:

Your Windows 10 Enterprise 22H2 build 19045.5965 meets the core operating system requirements for Docker Desktop 4.41.2. As long as you have the necessary hardware virtualization enabled in your BIOS and the WSL 2 (recommended) or Hyper-V features enabled in Windows, you will have Buildx and BuildKit functionality for building containers.


Sources





i have enabled wsl, now how do i check wsl version



Show thinking
You can check your WSL version using a couple of commands in either PowerShell or Command Prompt.

1. To check the overall WSL version (the WSL application itself):

Open PowerShell or Command Prompt and type:

Bash

wsl --version
This command will show you the version of the Windows Subsystem for Linux installed on your computer, including the WSL version, Kernel version, WSLg version (for GUI apps), and more.

Example Output:

WSL version: 2.3.24.0
Kernel version: 5.15.153.1-2
WSLg version: 1.0.65
MSRDC version: 1.2.5620
Direct3D version: 1.611.1-81528511
DXCore version: 10.0.26100.1-240331-1435.ge-release
Windows version: 10.0.22631.4317
(Note: If this command gives you an error or only shows a list of options, it usually means you're running an older "in-box" version of WSL 1. In that case, proceed to the next command.)

2. To check the WSL version for each installed Linux distribution:

This is often more important as it tells you whether each of your Linux distributions (like Ubuntu, Debian, etc.) is running on WSL 1 or WSL 2.

Open PowerShell or Command Prompt and type:

Bash

wsl --list --verbose
or its shorthand:

Bash

wsl -l -v
This will list all your installed Linux distributions, their current state (Running or Stopped), and the WSL version they are using (1 or 2).

Example Output:

  NAME                   STATE           VERSION
* Ubuntu                 Running         2
  Debian                 Stopped         2
  kali-linux             Stopped         1
In this example, Ubuntu and Debian are running on WSL 2, while kali-linux is on WSL 1. The asterisk * indicates your default distribution.

To ensure optimal performance and Docker Desktop compatibility, all your distributions should ideally be running on WSL 2. If any are on WSL 1, you can convert them:

Bash

wsl --set-version <DistributionName> 2
(Replace <DistributionName> with the actual name from the wsl -l -v output, e.g., wsl --set-version kali-linux 2). This conversion might take a few minutes.


Sources





i might have an older version that does not support wsl --version



Show thinking
It's possible! If wsl --version doesn't work, you likely have an older, in-box version of WSL 1 that came with Windows, and it hasn't been updated to the standalone WSL application. This is quite common on Windows 10 unless you've specifically installed updates or the standalone app from the Microsoft Store.

In that case, you'll still be able to use wsl --list --verbose (or wsl -l -v) to see which version your distributions are using, but you won't get a general WSL application version number.

To get full WSL 2 functionality and optimal Docker Desktop performance, you'll need to update WSL.

Here are the steps you'll likely need to take:

Check existing distribution versions: Use the command that should still work.

Update WSL to the latest version (recommended): This usually involves installing the WSL update from Microsoft.

Convert existing distributions to WSL 2 (if needed): Once the WSL platform is updated.

Here are the search queries to help you with these steps:
You're on the right track! If wsl --version doesn't work, it definitely means you have an older, "in-box" version of WSL 1, and you'll need to update it to get the full benefits of WSL 2 and proper Docker Desktop integration.

Here's a concise guide on how to proceed, focusing on updating to the latest WSL version, which will then give you access to wsl --version and the WSL 2 backend for your distributions:

Step 1: Check your existing WSL distributions (if any)
Even if wsl --version doesn't work, wsl -l -v should still list your installed distributions and their current WSL version (1 or 2).

Open PowerShell as Administrator (right-click Start button > select "Windows PowerShell (Admin)" or "Terminal (Admin)").

Type:

PowerShell

wsl -l -v
This will show you a list like this:

  NAME                   STATE           VERSION
* Ubuntu                 Running         1  <-- This is what you'll likely see
If you see "1" under the VERSION column for your distributions, then they are running on WSL 1.

Step 2: Update WSL to the latest standalone version
Microsoft has made it much easier to update WSL. The latest versions are distributed via the Microsoft Store, allowing for faster updates independent of Windows updates.

Open PowerShell as Administrator.

Run the update command:

PowerShell

wsl --update
This command will download and install the latest WSL application (which includes the kernel). If it tells you WSL is not installed or the command isn't recognized, you might need to install it first (see Step 3 below).

Set WSL 2 as the default version for new installations:

PowerShell

wsl --set-default-version 2
You might see a message about "For information on key differences..."

Restart WSL:

PowerShell

wsl --shutdown
This will shut down all running WSL distributions.

Step 3: Enable Required Windows Features (if wsl --update failed or for first-time setup)
If wsl --update gave you an error like "WSL is not installed" or "invalid command line option", it means you don't even have the foundational components enabled.

Open PowerShell as Administrator.

Enable the "Windows Subsystem for Linux" feature:

PowerShell

dism.exe /online /enable-feature /featurename:Microsoft-Windows-Subsystem-Linux /all /norestart
Enable the "Virtual Machine Platform" feature (required for WSL 2):

PowerShell

dism.exe /online /enable-feature /featurename:VirtualMachinePlatform /all /norestart
Restart your computer now. This is crucial for these features to take effect.

After rebooting, go back to Step 2 (wsl --update) and run those commands again. They should now work.

Step 4: Convert your existing distributions to WSL 2 (if they are still WSL 1)
After wsl --update has run successfully and you've rebooted (if necessary), your WSL platform should be up to date. Now, convert any existing distributions:

Open PowerShell as Administrator.

List your distributions again to confirm their names:

PowerShell

wsl -l -v
For each distribution that shows VERSION 1, convert it to WSL 2:

PowerShell

wsl --set-version <DistributionName> 2
(Replace <DistributionName> with the actual name, e.g., Ubuntu or Debian).
This process can take a few minutes, especially for larger distributions.

Step 5: Verify everything
Open PowerShell as Administrator.

Now, try wsl --version again. It should provide you with the detailed version information.

Also, run wsl -l -v again to ensure all your distributions are showing VERSION 2.

Once all these steps are complete, Docker Desktop should be able to use the WSL 2 backend without issues.




C:\Users\buttja>wsl --list --verbose

Windows Subsystem for Linux has no installed distributions.

Distributions can be installed by visiting the Microsoft Store:

https://aka.ms/wslstore




Show thinking
Okay, this output Windows Subsystem for Linux has no installed distributions. is very clear!

It means that while you might have the foundational WSL feature enabled, you haven't actually installed a Linux distribution (like Ubuntu, Debian, etc.) yet. Docker Desktop needs at least one WSL 2-enabled Linux distribution to run its backend.

Let's get a distribution installed and make sure WSL 2 is fully set up.

Step 1: Ensure Core WSL Features are Enabled and Updated
Even if you previously tried this, it's good to confirm the core platform is ready before installing a distribution.

Open PowerShell as Administrator.
(Right-click the Start button > select "Windows PowerShell (Admin)" or "Terminal (Admin)").

Run these commands to ensure the necessary Windows features are enabled:

PowerShell

dism.exe /online /enable-feature /featurename:Microsoft-Windows-Subsystem-Linux /all /norestart
dism.exe /online /enable-feature /featurename:VirtualMachinePlatform /all /norestart
(You might get a message saying the feature is already enabled, which is fine.)

Run the WSL update command:

PowerShell

wsl --update
This command downloads and installs the latest WSL application, which includes the WSL 2 kernel. If it was an older version, this will bring it up to date.

Set WSL 2 as the default version for future installations:

PowerShell

wsl --set-default-version 2
(You might see a message about the kernel not supporting ARM64, which is expected on Intel/AMD PCs. Just confirm with 'Y' if prompted to continue.)

Restart your computer now. This is crucial for the features and updates to take full effect.

Step 2: Install a Linux Distribution (e.g., Ubuntu)
After your computer restarts, proceed with installing a Linux distribution.

Open PowerShell or Command Prompt. (You might not need Administrator privileges for this specific command, but it doesn't hurt).

The easiest way to install Ubuntu (the most common choice for Docker Desktop) is using the new wsl --install command:

PowerShell

wsl --install -d Ubuntu
This command will:

Automatically enable the required WSL components (if not already done).

Download the Ubuntu distribution from the Microsoft Store.

Install it.

Launch it for the first time, prompting you to create a Unix username and password.

Alternative (if wsl --install -d Ubuntu doesn't work for some reason):

Go to the Microsoft Store.

Search for "Ubuntu" (or "Debian", "Kali Linux", etc.).

Select the latest stable version of Ubuntu (e.g., "Ubuntu" or "Ubuntu 22.04 LTS").

Click "Get" or "Install".

Once installed, launch it from the Start Menu. The first time it runs, it will complete the installation and ask you to set up a Unix username and password.

Step 3: Verify Your WSL Installation
After the distribution has installed and you've set up its username/password:

Open PowerShell or Command Prompt.

Run the verification command:

PowerShell

wsl -l -v
You should now see an output similar to this, with Ubuntu (or your chosen distro) showing Version 2:

  NAME                   STATE           VERSION
* Ubuntu                 Running         2
(If it shows Version 1, you can manually convert it using wsl --set-version Ubuntu 2).

You can also try wsl --version now, and it should give you detailed version information for the WSL application itself.

Step 4: Restart Docker Desktop
Once you have a WSL 2 distribution installed and running, restart Docker Desktop. It should now detect the WSL 2 backend and start successfully.




